---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPostLayout.astro
title: "I owe my life to programming"
author: Clint Winter
createdAt: 2020-02-26 11:35:32
updatedAt: 2020-02-26 13:41:21
---

I owe my life to programming.
When I was in high school, the question I received the most was \"What are you going to do in college?\" or \"What do you want to be?\" I was typically honest about it and responded, \"I don't know.\" Their response in return was unanimously the same: \"Don't worry, you've got plenty of time!\" They were unanimously wrong.
I can't speak for everyone, but in my case, there was never a time where I was walking along before suddenly being smitten from the heavens with my life's purpose. I wasn't magically drawn to something from a young age. And I definitely wasn't one of these self-proclaimed prodigies on YouTube who were building robots and videogames in their room at six years old. I was outside with my friends smacking sticks against trees or playing the videogames the genius six year olds were trying to emulate.
Growing up with three older siblings around me didn't leave me with a lot of breathing room to carve my own path. I have come to believe that having the strong influence of older siblings predestined my life in directions I would likely not have taken on my own. I can't know if it ended up being a good or bad thing without peeking into an alternate reality, but I'd argue that there's no question its influence was dramatic. Maybe I would have been the six year old building robots if my older siblings never existed, but I wouldn't trade one for the other.
Once I reached college, I didn't want to waste money, especially when I had no direction, so I chose to start at my community college. I'd advise just about everyone to go that route anyway if they are going to college. I majored in \"Liberal Arts - General\", whatever the hell that was. I figured I'd have to take all of the general education classes regardless, so there was no point to try and focus on a potentially wrong direction. 
I did not enjoy college much at all. Especially since I was taking all gen-eds. There's something about being talked at for one to three hours by a person with no real passion for what they are teaching that really turns me off from the subject matter. My grades were generally fine--I typically was flirting with the Dean's List, but even so it took less than two years of a meaningless college experience to trigger a serious quarter-life crisis. I knew I was in limbo with no trajectory, and the realization finally caught up to me.
It was a nerve-racking, introspective period where I non-exaggeratedly spent every waking moment thinking about my future. I probably read 40 to 50 books within a year to help gain perspective. I begrudgingly admit I even bought Tai Lopez's (remember that guy?) 67 steps program, which honestly wasn't bad. It definitely helped me think in different ways during such a chaotic time. I tested the waters of many different career paths before I settled on web development. I considered things like writing, video game development, and more off the wall stuff like entomology (studying bugs).
Even once I started looking into web development the struggle was far from over. It took a ridiculous amount of time reading and sorting through the garbage to understand if a web development career was even realistic considering I was borderline dropped out of college. Coming from a position of knowing absolutely zero about the subject, trying to get a clear picture of what's possible is one of the most anxiety-inducing uphill experiences you can imagine. 
Half the articles that I found were from gate-keeping jerks who wanted to close the door to the industry right behind them because they are too afraid of competition. They use scare tactics on the uninformed to keep them from seriously considering the option. Things like \"You must have an insane passion for it. You can't just do your job and go home, you have to learn and practice every waking moment if you want to make it.\"
